there's more to climbing mountains than
just showing up in a beautiful place I'm
here in Rocky Mountain National Park
with rainbow weinstock rainbow you're a
full time guide with Colorado Mountain
School what's the first thing you talk
to your clients about when you show up
in a place like this well a big thing is
for folks to be aware of their
surroundings okay another thing that's
important is people need to pace
themselves when they go for a summit I'm
the kind of guy who shows up and takes
off for the first hour and then I'm
exhausted I guess that's not the way to
go right that's probably not going to
add up person used to have enough energy
to get to the top and then back down to
the car so you're probably going slower
than you think you should when you start
out yeah cool so what else are we going
to be talking about today well I think
learning to travel and steep rock train
is a useful skill you mean like some of
this stuff up here yeah those would be
great
okay let's go
oh this looks pretty cool rainbow yeah
this is the sort of rock training where
we're feeling pretty good going up
without a rope okay
well we want to have is nice deliberate
footwork okay
as you cruise on up there all right it
looks like to be a little bit loose yeah
something want to do is test hold before
we commit to them okay how's it feel
feels pretty good all right I'm great
all right so where to next
well I think we can go check out some
snow over there all right let's do it
so it's getting a little slippery here
rainbow yeah here in the snow yes you
want to do what's called the kick step
okay so you want to wind your foot off
and kick it into the snow creating a
platform okay kind of like this that
looks great you know give you that it's
even better you could follow in my
footsteps that way they're already
enforced I'm right behind you oh yeah
that's better
that looks excellent so we're gonna do
something different when we're going
downhill okay you're gonna do what's
called the plunge stare right you want
to drop your heel go straight into the
snow I'm really driving my heel down
into the snow there am I staying right
behind you on this one oh it's great
where you're off this side okay great
excellent
alright so let's see we're gonna move
efficiently when we get to the mountains
we're gonna check our holes when we're
on rock and we're gonna use the kick
step in the punch step when we hit snow
dad Carver's it let's go pack some of
the skill all right let's go
you